# Summary of results
In all scenarios we project a very quick growth of cases, overshadowing any growth we have seen in past waves.  The projected number of infections is likely to overwhelm the testing systems. Projections for deaths are strongly dependent on the specific scenario, ranging from 60% of the delta wave to almost 2 times the January 2021 peak. Hospitalizations numbers range from numbers comparable to the January 2021 peak to a factor 3 larger in the most pessimistic scenarios. We observe a sharp drop in case counts in the coming weeks. The related drop in hospitalizations is shifted from one to two weeks with a similar quick decrease. The peak for deaths is shifted even further. The current data seems more aligned with the A&B scenarios (low severity). 

# Explanation of observed dynamics given model assumptions
The projected dynamic of the epidemic is very fast for all scenarios. This is due to the evasion and increased transmissibility of the Omicron variant. The model dynamic did capture in round 11 the quick growth of the Omicron wave. The peak of the epidemic is quickly reached because of a combination of immunity provided by the large number of infections. The quick growth and decay of the epidemic indicates a level of synchronization of the epidemic across the USA that is in large part due to the small doubling time of Omicron that has generated small temporal shifts in the wave onset across geographical areas. The model could however overestimate the level of synchronization due to the lack of accurate Omicron prevalence data to set the initial conditions for the Omcron spreading in early December. We observe Omicron replacing entirely all other variants, thus leading to very low SARS-CoV-2 incidence in March. This might not be the case if new variants emerge or if Omicron does not provide a high level of cross-immunity thus leading to the resurgence of other SARS-CoV-2 lineages. Finally we notice that the large number of infections generated by Omicron seems to reduce the short term effects of the waning of immune protection.

# Model assumptions
## Initial distribution of susceptibility
We use a multi-scale epidemic model to project scenarios concerning the impact on deaths and hospital admission of the Omicron SARS-CoV-2 variant in the USA. The model considers a multi-strain structure that has been expanded to account for the ancestral virus and the beta, delta, and omicron variants. We calibrate the model on the full evolution of the pandemic. This will also provide estimates of previously infected people, vaccinated, etc. individuals at the county level in the US. 

## Transmissibility
The prior on R0 for the ancestral virus ranges between [1.6, 3.8]; Omicron transmissibility with respect to Delta ranges between 90% and 166% depending on the immune escape assumptions of Delta (transmissibility in [90%,100%] in scenarios A&C; and in [150%, 166%] in scenarios B&D).

## Generation time
We did not consider variations of generation time for Omicron.

## Waning immunity assumptions
We consider waning immunity for vaccinated and infected individuals (6 months).

## Other updates in model assumptions from previous rounds
We consider a status quo scenario for the NPIs level and booster uptake informed by the dynamic of the previous vaccination uptake (one and two doses). The severity, and overall protection offered by the vaccines for severe and fatal evolution of the disease to omicron are according to the SMH scenario directions. We do not assume any degradation in the quality of care. Initial conditions for Omicron have been updated with respect to round 11 using CDC variants proportion Nowcast model (https://covid.cdc.gov/covid-data-tracker/#circulatingVariants).