# Summary of results
Current projections show a rapid rise that continue until mid January followed by a rapid descent from this peak, nearly returning to the projection point by the end of January.  This general pattern is represented across all the states, with some states (primarily in the Plains and Mountain West) delayed a bit and with a broader projected epidemic curve and on the other end of the spectrum many states (primarily in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic, where Omicron first took hold) starting to decline only a week into the projection (aligning with this week).  Our projections show a modest gap between the two levels of immune escape in confirmed cases generated, however this gap broadens among other outcomes.  Hospitalizations similarly peak and recede rapidly within the month of January, whereas, deaths lag by several weeks and may have a broader overall epidemic curve.

# Explanation of observed dynamics given model assumptions
The unprecedented surge of cases driven by the Omicron variant has already exceeded the ability for testing to keep up, which limits the model's ability to accurately fit to total infections by matching confirmed cases alone.  The observed case rates nationally exceeded 1% of the population confirmed positive in a single week, at those levels with even modest levels of missed case ascertainment a significant portion of the US population was infected in a matter of a couple weeks.  That combined with protection induced from vaccination and to a lesser degree the recent Delta wave, even when partially evaded, leave little susceptibility remaining in the population which hastens the decline.  Long-term the model asymptotes to very low levels of infections, driven by the assumption of infection with omicron inducing immunity to omicron on par with previous variants, and no future variants that evade omicron specific immunity.

# Model assumptions
## Initial distribution of susceptibility
We fit the observed confirmed cases from the start of the pandemic and administer vaccines according to vaccination date from CDC data tracker to capture the history of infections and vaccinations.  The distribution of susceptibility, including immune tiers for naive (unvaccinated), and 1- 3 doses of vaccines are all captured and dynamically maintained in the simulation.  We project new vaccinations by assigning total coverage 3 months out as the total acceptance as reported by COVIDcast surveys (1st dose is very close)
## Transmissibility
Our model's fit to confirmed cases is obtained by fitting transmissibility, and thus captures the inherent infectiousness of the virus as well as the social factors that allow transmission.  For projection purposes we analyze the
## Generation time
Generation time is not an explicit parameter and is somewhat influenced by the transmissibility, which is set for each state independently.  We capture a reduced generation time for omicron by reducing the incubation time by 30% across the distribution of incubation times included in each of the particles (unique combinations of parameters) used for projection.
## Waning immunity assumptions
We model waning immunity as constant rate from those who are recovered to freshly susceptible with an expected dwell time of 6 months.  
## Other updates in model assumptions from previous rounds (e.g., changes in reporting outcomes due to Omicron)
Previous round did not include the reduced serial interval described above.  We did not model changes to case ascertainment which almost certainly has happened as we have observed case positivity levels over 20% for some time and the perponderance of "at-home" testing has led to fewer confirmed cases.
