# Summary of results
The model indicates a large variability of the results as a function of the waning time and the level of protection after waning. Overall patterns observed:
- The long waning scenario (10 months) appears to provide a slow replenishment of the susceptible pool after the major january/February 2022 Omicron wave. Surges of cases/hosp/deaths are not observed until late fall/winter.  
- The short waning scenario has the potential to generate cyclic  surges (every 3-4 months) starting in the US summer of 2022 and more sizable surges in the fall/winter. 
- In all scenarios, the emergence of variant X is increasing the surge peak. This effect is more marked in the long waning scenario.
- Differences and heterogeneity across states are observed.  
 

# Explanation of observed dynamics given model assumptions
It appears that the major driver of the epidemic in the future months is the waning of protection. The large amount of infections generated by the Omicron wave built in the population considerable immunity. The waning of this protection is a key element in the timing and magnitude of future surges.  

# Model assumptions
## Number/type of immune classes considered
We consider two classes for pre and post omicron exposure, and a “waned” class. 


## Initial distribution of susceptibility if available
We define this through the calibration of the model on the Omicron wave data through an ABC approach. The distribution of the proportion of susceptible is depending on the scenario and geographic location.

## Initial variant characteristics (including Omicron transmissibility, immune escape, and how uncertainty or non-identifiability was handled) 
Omicron transmissibility is obtained from calibration and varies across scenarios. We use a prior on effective transmissibility that accounts also for residual NPIs, seasonality and vaccine/prior exposure protection. 

## Process for setting/calibrating P(hosp given current infection) and P(death given current infection)
Calibrated by looking at deaths and hospitalizations during the Omicron wave.


## Waning immunity details (e.g., distribution used)
We use a gamma distribution for transitioning to the waned class. Waned protection measured with respect to post Omicron infection. 

## Seasonality implementation
We use seasonal modulation of transmissibility. School calendars are also included in the model.

## Emerging variant details (including introduction process)
We introduce the cases as indicated by the scenario specifications stochastically across counties according to international traffic. Domestic dispersion of cases is included mechanistically in the model through commuting patterns and domestic origin-destination traffic flows. 

## Nonpharmaceutical interventions 
Status quo


## Other updates in model assumptions from previous rounds (e.g., changes in reporting outcomes, booster implementation)
- We do not assume changes in reporting outcomes.
- We do not consider additional boosters.
- We consider the emergence of the BA2 more transmissible variant with an effective increase of the Omicron transmissibility.

